README.md, before:

# Daily Quote App

A clean, minimalist mobile app that delivers daily inspiration through curated quotes. Built with Flutter and powered by the Quotable API.

![Daily Quote App Screenshot](https://dhiwise-assets.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/uploadAttachments/screen-1768248092122.png)

## Features

- **Daily Random Quotes**: Fresh inspirational quotes from the Quotable API
- **Favorites System**: Save your favorite quotes with persistent storage
- **Streak Counter**: Track your daily engagement with local storage
- **Share Functionality**: Share quotes through system share sheet
- **Dark Theme**: Beautiful dark green gradient design
- **Smooth UX**: Scrollable content and responsive layout

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Flutter SDK (3.0 or higher)
- Dart SDK
- Android Studio / VS Code
- Android/iOS device or simulator

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/gunvantgmc/quoteapp
   cd daily-quote-app
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   flutter pub get
   ```

3. **Run the app**
   ```bash
   flutter run
   ```

### Build for Release

**Android APK:**

```bash
flutter build apk --release
```

**iOS (requires macOS):**

```bash
flutter build ios --release
```

## My Development Approach

This project started with a clear requirement gathering phase where I mapped out the core functionality needed for a daily quote app. Here's how I approached the development:

1. **Requirements Analysis**: Broke down the task into core features (quote display, favorites, sharing, persistence)

2. **Wireframing & Visualization**: Used Stitch to generate initial wireframes and visualize the user flow before coding

3. **UI Implementation**: Designed the interface using Stitch for clean, modern aesthetics with the dark green gradient theme

4. **AI-Assisted Development**: Leveraged Rocket platform for rapid app generation and iterative improvements

5. **Iterative Refinement**: Made continuous fixes and enhancements using a combination of AI tools and traditional development resources

6. **Testing & Polish**: Ensured smooth functionality across different screen sizes and quote lengths

The key was starting with a solid foundation and then using AI tools to accelerate development while maintaining code quality.

## AI Tools & Resources Used

- **Rocket Platform**: Primary tool for Flutter app generation and code modifications
- **ChatGPT**: Used for resolving functional doubts, generating good prompts, and problem-solving
- **Stitch**: For UI design and wireframing
- **Traditional Resources**: Google, Stack Overflow for specific technical challenges

## Design Process

The app design was created using **Stitch** for UI generation and wireframing. The design focuses on:

- Minimalist dark theme with green accents
- Clear typography for quote readability
- Intuitive action buttons (favorite, next, share)
- Visual streak counter for user engagement

### App Screenshots

**Home Screen:**
![Home Screen](https://dhiwise-assets.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/uploadAttachments/screen-1768248092122.png)

The home screen features:

- Daily streak counter at the top
- Large, readable quote display with decorative quotation marks
- Author attribution in green accent color
- Three action buttons: Favorite, Next Quote, and Share

## API Integration

This app integrates with the [Quotable API](https://api.quotable.io) for fetching random quotes:

- **Endpoint**: `http://api.quotable.io/quotes/random`
- **Authentication**: No authentication required
- **Response**: Returns quote content, author, and metadata

## Technical Architecture

### State Management

- Provider pattern for state management
- SharedPreferences for local data persistence

### Key Packages

- **dio**: HTTP client for API requests
- **shared_preferences**: Local storage for favorites and streak data
- **share_plus**: Native share functionality
- **flutter_svg**: SVG image rendering
- **google_fonts**: Custom typography (Inter font)

### Project Structure

```
lib/
├── main.dart                          # App entry point
├── presentation/                      # UI layer
│   ├── home_screen/                   # Home screen with quote display
│   │   ├── home_screen.dart
│   │   ├── home_screen_initial_page.dart
│   │   └── widgets/                   # Home screen widgets
│   │       ├── quote_card_widget.dart
│   │       └── action_button_widget.dart
│   └── favorites_screen/              # Favorites screen
│       ├── favorites_screen.dart
│       └── widgets/                   # Favorites widgets
│           ├── favorite_quote_card_widget.dart
│           └── empty_favorites_widget.dart
├── services/                          # Business logic
│   ├── quote_service.dart             # API integration
│   ├── favorites_service.dart         # Favorites management
│   └── streak_service.dart            # Streak tracking
├── theme/                             # App theming
│   └── app_theme.dart
├── widgets/                           # Reusable widgets
│   ├── custom_bottom_bar.dart
│   ├── custom_error_widget.dart
│   ├── custom_icon_widget.dart
│   └── custom_image_widget.dart
├── routes/                            # Navigation
│   └── app_routes.dart
└── core/                              # Core utilities
    └── app_export.dart
```

## Key Features Implementation

### 1. Daily Streak Counter

- Uses SharedPreferences to track last visit date
- Calculates consecutive days of app usage
- Resets if user misses a day
- Displays with flame icon for visual appeal

### 2. Favorites System

- Persistent storage using SharedPreferences
- Add/remove quotes with heart icon toggle
- Dedicated favorites screen with all saved quotes
- Empty state when no favorites exist

### 3. Quote Display

- Scrollable quote content to handle long quotes
- Flexible author name display to prevent overflow
- Decorative quotation marks for visual appeal
- Responsive layout for different screen sizes

### 4. Share Functionality

- Native share sheet integration
- Shares quote text with author attribution
- Works across all platforms (iOS, Android, Web)

## Challenges & Solutions

### Challenge 1: Long Quote Overflow

**Problem**: Long quotes were overlapping with action buttons
**Solution**: Wrapped quote content in SingleChildScrollView to make it scrollable

### Challenge 2: Author Name Overflow

**Problem**: Long author names were causing text overflow
**Solution**: Used Flexible widget with TextOverflow.ellipsis and maxLines to wrap text properly

### Challenge 3: Static Streak Counter

**Problem**: Streak counter was showing hardcoded value
**Solution**: Implemented StreakService with SharedPreferences to track actual daily visits and calculate consecutive streaks

## Future Enhancements

- [ ] Add quote categories/tags filtering
- [ ] Add daily notifications with quotes
- [ ] Create custom quote collections
- [ ] Add social sharing with custom quote images
- [ ] Include quote of the day widget

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to improve the app:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Author

**Gunvant Chandratre** - [github.com/GunvantGMC](https://github.com/GunvantGMC)

Feel free to reach out for questions, suggestions, or collaboration opportunities!

## Acknowledgments

- [Quotable API](https://quotable.io) for providing the quote data
- [Stitch](https://stitch.tech) for design and wireframing tools
- [Rocket Platform](https://rocket.dev) for AI-assisted Flutter development
- The Flutter community for excellent packages and resources

---

**Built with ❤️ using Flutter and AI-assisted development**

Commit message:

Design note added in readme file

README.md, after:

# Daily Quote App

A clean, minimalist mobile app that delivers daily inspiration through curated quotes. Built with Flutter and powered by the Quotable API.

![Daily Quote App Screenshot](https://dhiwise-assets.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/uploadAttachments/screen-1768248092122.png)

## Features

- **Daily Random Quotes**: Fresh inspirational quotes from the Quotable API
- **Favorites System**: Save your favorite quotes with persistent storage
- **Streak Counter**: Track your daily engagement with local storage
- **Share Functionality**: Share quotes through system share sheet
- **Dark Theme**: Beautiful dark green gradient design
- **Smooth UX**: Scrollable content and responsive layout

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Flutter SDK (3.0 or higher)
- Dart SDK
- Android Studio / VS Code
- Android/iOS device or simulator

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/gunvantgmc/quoteapp
   cd daily-quote-app
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   flutter pub get
   ```

3. **Run the app**
   ```bash
   flutter run
   ```

### Build for Release

**Android APK:**

```bash
flutter build apk --release
```

**iOS (requires macOS):**

```bash
flutter build ios --release
```

## My Development Approach

This project started with a clear requirement gathering phase where I mapped out the core functionality needed for a daily quote app. Here's how I approached the development:

1. **Requirements Analysis**: Broke down the task into core features (quote display, favorites, sharing, persistence)

2. **Wireframing & Visualization**: Used Stitch to generate initial wireframes and visualize the user flow before coding

3. **UI Implementation**: Designed the interface using Stitch for clean, modern aesthetics with the dark green gradient theme

4. **AI-Assisted Development**: Leveraged Rocket platform for rapid app generation and iterative improvements

5. **Iterative Refinement**: Made continuous fixes and enhancements using a combination of AI tools and traditional development resources

6. **Testing & Polish**: Ensured smooth functionality across different screen sizes and quote lengths

The key was starting with a solid foundation and then using AI tools to accelerate development while maintaining code quality.

## AI Tools & Resources Used

- **Rocket Platform**: Primary tool for Flutter app generation and code modifications
- **ChatGPT**: Used for resolving functional doubts, generating good prompts, and problem-solving
- **Stitch**: For UI design and wireframing
- **Traditional Resources**: Google, Stack Overflow for specific technical challenges

## Design Process

The app design was created using **Stitch** for UI generation and wireframing. The design focuses on:

- Minimalist dark theme with green accents
- Clear typography for quote readability
- Intuitive action buttons (favorite, next, share)
- Visual streak counter for user engagement
  > Minor design adjustments were made during final implementation to improve usability and layout consistency. As a result, small differences may exist between initial designs and the final app.

### App Screenshots

**Home Screen:**
![Home Screen](https://dhiwise-assets.s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/uploadAttachments/screen-1768248092122.png)

The home screen features:

- Daily streak counter at the top
- Large, readable quote display with decorative quotation marks
- Author attribution in green accent color
- Three action buttons: Favorite, Next Quote, and Share

## API Integration

This app integrates with the [Quotable API](https://api.quotable.io) for fetching random quotes:

- **Endpoint**: `http://api.quotable.io/quotes/random`
- **Authentication**: No authentication required
- **Response**: Returns quote content, author, and metadata

## Technical Architecture

### State Management

- Provider pattern for state management
- SharedPreferences for local data persistence

### Key Packages

- **dio**: HTTP client for API requests
- **shared_preferences**: Local storage for favorites and streak data
- **share_plus**: Native share functionality
- **flutter_svg**: SVG image rendering
- **google_fonts**: Custom typography (Inter font)

### Project Structure

```
lib/
├── main.dart                          # App entry point
├── presentation/                      # UI layer
│   ├── home_screen/                   # Home screen with quote display
│   │   ├── home_screen.dart
│   │   ├── home_screen_initial_page.dart
│   │   └── widgets/                   # Home screen widgets
│   │       ├── quote_card_widget.dart
│   │       └── action_button_widget.dart
│   └── favorites_screen/              # Favorites screen
│       ├── favorites_screen.dart
│       └── widgets/                   # Favorites widgets
│           ├── favorite_quote_card_widget.dart
│           └── empty_favorites_widget.dart
├── services/                          # Business logic
│   ├── quote_service.dart             # API integration
│   ├── favorites_service.dart         # Favorites management
│   └── streak_service.dart            # Streak tracking
├── theme/                             # App theming
│   └── app_theme.dart
├── widgets/                           # Reusable widgets
│   ├── custom_bottom_bar.dart
│   ├── custom_error_widget.dart
│   ├── custom_icon_widget.dart
│   └── custom_image_widget.dart
├── routes/                            # Navigation
│   └── app_routes.dart
└── core/                              # Core utilities
    └── app_export.dart
```

## Key Features Implementation

### 1. Daily Streak Counter

- Uses SharedPreferences to track last visit date
- Calculates consecutive days of app usage
- Resets if user misses a day
- Displays with flame icon for visual appeal

### 2. Favorites System

- Persistent storage using SharedPreferences
- Add/remove quotes with heart icon toggle
- Dedicated favorites screen with all saved quotes
- Empty state when no favorites exist

### 3. Quote Display

- Scrollable quote content to handle long quotes
- Flexible author name display to prevent overflow
- Decorative quotation marks for visual appeal
- Responsive layout for different screen sizes

### 4. Share Functionality

- Native share sheet integration
- Shares quote text with author attribution
- Works across all platforms (iOS, Android, Web)

## Challenges & Solutions

### Challenge 1: Long Quote Overflow

**Problem**: Long quotes were overlapping with action buttons
**Solution**: Wrapped quote content in SingleChildScrollView to make it scrollable

### Challenge 2: Author Name Overflow

**Problem**: Long author names were causing text overflow
**Solution**: Used Flexible widget with TextOverflow.ellipsis and maxLines to wrap text properly

### Challenge 3: Static Streak Counter

**Problem**: Streak counter was showing hardcoded value
**Solution**: Implemented StreakService with SharedPreferences to track actual daily visits and calculate consecutive streaks

## Future Enhancements

- [ ] Add quote categories/tags filtering
- [ ] Add daily notifications with quotes
- [ ] Create custom quote collections
- [ ] Add social sharing with custom quote images
- [ ] Include quote of the day widget

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to improve the app:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Author

**Gunvant Chandratre** - [github.com/GunvantGMC](https://github.com/GunvantGMC)

Feel free to reach out for questions, suggestions, or collaboration opportunities!

## Acknowledgments

- [Quotable API](https://quotable.io) for providing the quote data
- [Stitch](https://stitch.tech) for design and wireframing tools
- [Rocket Platform](https://rocket.dev) for AI-assisted Flutter development
- The Flutter community for excellent packages and resources

---

**Built with ❤️ using Flutter and AI-assisted development**
